Rewrite File Handling (#267)
FlutterFlow/flutterflow-documentation: docs/ff-concepts/file-handling/displaying-media.md

To display media on widgets, navigate to the **Properties Panel** and specify the media source under the **[Media] Type** option (e.g., ImageType, AudioType, VideoType). Here are the available options:

### Network

Enter the URL of the media directly into the **Path** input field. This is for media hosted online.

![dm-network-path.avif](imgs/dm-network-path.avif)

If your media is uploaded to Firebase or Supabase, click **Set from Variable** on the **Path** input field, and select **Source** as **Widget State > Uploaded File URL**.

![dm-uploaded-file.avif](imgs/dm-uploaded-file.avif)

For media uploaded via an API, choose **Source** as **Action Outputs > [Action Output Variable Name] (API Response)**. Ensure that the API response contains the URL of the uploaded file. Learn how to extract the URL using [JSON path](../../resources/control-flow/backend-logic/api/rest-api.md#json-path).

![dm-api.avif](imgs/dm-api.avif)

:::info

To handle scenarios where media takes time to load or fails to load, you can set a placeholder. Click **Set from Variable** on the **Path** field and specify a placeholder URL under the **Default Value** property.

:::

### Asset

> Use this option to upload media from your computer or select previously uploaded assets.

Author: I believe that when you set the media type to Assets, you have the option to either directly upload new media or select from existing assets. We can also link to 'https://docs.flutterflow.io/generated-code/project-structure/#assets' since it provides the same description you mentioned.

> Use this option to upload media from your computer or select previously uploaded assets.

Reviewer: ok i see the confusion, but the description starting with "you can upload from computer" will confuse users because they will think this is used for "uploading media" to the "app/backend". what you are mentioning is just a shortcut way to upload assets. you should probably just mention what assets are and they can be uploaded from the 'assets' page on the navbar (main way to upload assets) but users can also upload the asset "files" from a shortcut way and then mention the upload thing there. it shouldnt be the first line in the desc then.

### Uploaded File

Selecting this option allows for the dynamic handling of media within your app, accommodating media uploaded by users during app usage. For example, if you simply wish to display an image within your app without uploading it anywhere, or if you'd like to preview the image before sending it to your server through an API, you can achieve this by setting the source as **Widget State -> Uploaded Local File**.

![dm-local-upload.avif](imgs/dm-local-upload.avif)

> ## AudioPlayer

Reviewer: add a tip[generated code] admonition and mention the underlying package used here.

> The **AudioPlayer** widget allows you to integrate audio playback into your apps. You can play audio from both uploaded assets and external URLs. Refer to the [**Displaying Media**](#) section for more details on accessing media.

Author: Done! added a new 'Media Types' (H2 tag) and linked to it.

    - **Playback Button Color:** Adjust the colors of the play and pause buttons.
    - **Active/Inactive Track Color:** Change the progress bar color that indicates the current playback position.
- **Elevation:** Use the **Elevation** property to modify the shadow beneath the audio tile. A higher value increases the shadow size, while setting it to 0 removes the shadow.
- **Text Styling:**
    - **Title Text:** Personalize the title’s font, size, and color in the **Title Text Style** section.
    - **Playback Duration Text:** Adjust the style of the playback duration text in the **Playback Duration Text Style** section.

## Audio Recording

You can implement audio recording functionality using the **Start Audio Recording** and **Stop Audio Recording** actions.

:::warning

Currently, audio recording is not supported in **Run** or **Test** modes due to certain limitations.

:::

### Start Audio Recording [Action]

This action starts the recording. It also provides a name to the recording, which you can use later to stop the recording using the [Stop Audio Recording](#stop-audio-recording-action) *action.*

> Before adding this action, ensure you [request microphone permission](../../resources/projects/settings/project-setup.md#request-permission-action). Then, inside the **TRUE** section of the permission check, add the **Start Audio Recording** action. By default, the **Name** is a randomly generated string. You can change it to a more descriptive name for easier identification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before adding this action, ensure you [request microphone permission](../../resources/projects/settings/project-setup.md#request-permission-action). Within the **TRUE** block of the permission condition check, add the **Start Audio Recording** action. By default, the **Name** field value is a randomly generated string. You can change it to a more descriptive name for easier identification.
```

:::tip

After starting recording, you might want to update the state variables to reflect changes on the UI. For instance, you can enable/disable buttons or start recording animations to provide a visual cue of the ongoing process. This step allows you to enhance the user experience and provide real-time feedback during the recording.

:::

![start-audio-recording.avif](imgs/start-audio-recording.avif)

### Stop Audio Recording [Action]

> This halts the ongoing recording using the name from the [Start Audio Recording](#start-audio-recording-action) action. To capture and play the recorded audio, make sure to specify the *Action Output Variable Name*, which can be used with the audio player.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have multiple audio recording actions, all the Recorder object names (either auto-generated by FlutterFlow or manually set by the user) are listed under the Recorder Name dropdown. Choose the recorder object you want to stop, and it will stop the ongoing recording.

 To capture and play the recorded audio, make sure to specify the *Action Output Variable Name*, which can be used with the audio player.
```

3. If you want to upload the audio recording to Firebase or Supabase, you can use the [Upload file](uploading-files.md#upload-or-save-media-action) action. When you add this action:
    1. Set the **Upload Type** to the preferred one.
    2. Set **File Type** to **Uploaded File** because the *Stop Audio Recording* action internally stores recorded audio bytes (inside widget state).
    3. Set the **File to Upload** to **Widget State > Recorded File**.
4. For uploading via API, *you don't need to add the Upload file action*. Just directly add the [**API call**](../../resources/control-flow/backend-logic/api/rest-api.md) and select the API that will upload the file to your server. **Note** that the request body for this API must be in *Multipart* format. You can pass the audio recording via **Widget State > Recorded File** in the API variable. See how to [configure an API for the multipart request body](../../resources/control-flow/backend-logic/api/rest-api.md#multipart-format).

:::tip

- After stopping the recording, you might want to update the state variables to reflect changes on the UI. For instance, you can enable/disable buttons or stop recording animations.

> - It's always a good idea to have a fail-safe mechanism to ensure recordings are properly stopped, even if the user forgets to do so manually. For instance, you can trigger this action when the user closes the app without explicitly stopping it.

Reviewer: > this action when the user closes the app without explicitly stopping it.

user may not know how to do that

Author: oh yes. linked to **On Dispose**.

:::tip

It is advisable to use this action only for short audio. To play the more extended audio, consider adding the [**AudioPlayer**](#audioplayer) widget.

:::

By default, this action is assigned a random **Name** to be stopped later using the [Stop Sound](#stop-sound-action) action. You can adjust the volume using the **Volume** slider (0.0 = mute, 1.0 = full volume). The action is non-blocking by default, allowing subsequent actions to trigger immediately. To wait until playback finishes before proceeding, enable the **Await Playback** option.

:::info[Use cases]

- **Feedback Sounds:** Play sounds for button clicks, form submissions, or error alerts to improve user interaction and feedback.
- **Notifications:** Play sound alerts for reminders, messages, or task completion.
- **Gamification:** Enhance gaming experiences with sound effects for achievements, levels, or interactions.

:::

### Stop Sound [Action]

You can stop a sound that is currently playing, which was started by the [Play Sound](#play-sound-action) action. For example, If your app is playing any sound effects, you may need to stop them when the app is paused or stopped.

:::info

> This action only works if you have added a [**Play Sound**](#play-sound-action) action on a page.

Reviewer: "only works" --> only enabled I think

Author: yup!

:::

## VideoPlayer

> The **VideoPlayer** widget is used to show a video from uploaded assets or the URL link. The VideoPlayer widget can play various video formats such as MP4, MOV, WAV, MPEG, and JPEG motion photos. Refer to the [**Displaying Media**](#) section for more details on accessing media.

Reviewer: also add the generated code package info here

> ### Customization Options

Reviewer: simple heading, not h3

Author: ok, changed at all places.

The **VideoPlayer** widget includes several options to align with your app's design and functionality:

- **Aspect Ratio:** Set the desired aspect ratio (e.g., 1.7 for a 16:9 ratio) to ensure the video displays correctly.
- **AutoPlay:** Enable this option to automatically start playing the video when the page loads.
- **Loop Video:** Choose whether the video should replay automatically after it ends.
- **Show Controls:** Display playback controls, including play/pause buttons and the seek bar.
- **Allow Full Screen:** Enable users to expand the video to full-screen mode.
- **Playback Speed Menu:** Let users adjust the video playback speed.
- **Load on Page Load:** When enabled, the video will preload when the page loads, reducing buffering time when the user starts playback.
- **Pause on Forward Navigation:** If enabled, the video will pause automatically when the user navigates away from the page.

> ## YoutubePlayer

Reviewer: same comment about package info

Author: Done!

The **YouTubePlayer** widget in FlutterFlow allows you to seamlessly integrate and play YouTube videos within your app. It offers customizable playback options and an intuitive interface for enhancing the user experience.

> ### Customization Options

Reviewer: same comment about header

Author: Done!

- **Loop Video:** When enabled, the video will automatically replay after it finishes.
- **Mute Video:** Starts the video in a muted state.
- **Show Controls:** Displays playback controls such as play/pause, volume, subtitles, and fullscreen options.
- **Show Full Screen Control:** This specifically displays the fullscreen toggle button among the controls.
- **Pause on Forward Navigation:** Automatically pauses the video when the user navigates away from the page.
- **Strict Related Videos:** Ensures that related videos shown at the end of playback come from the same channel as the currently played video.

> ## PdfViewer

Reviewer: package info

Author: Done!

In FlutterFlow, the **PdfViewer** widget enables you to display PDF files within your app, supporting both network URLs and locally uploaded assets. Refer to the [**Displaying Media**](#) section for more details.

> ### Customization Options

Reviewer: header fix

Author: Done!

- **Horizontal Scroll:** By default, the PdfViewer allows vertical scrolling through pages. Enable this option to allow horizontal scrolling.
- **Use Proxy:** By default, FlutterFlow routes PDF fetching through a proxy in **Run Mode** and **Test Mode** to avoid CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing) issues. **Switch this off** if you do not want the PDF request to be routed through the proxy.
- **Use Custom Proxy URL:** If you need a specific proxy, enable this option and provide your own proxy URL instead of using FlutterFlow’s default proxy.

## Web Access for PDFs and Other Files

> Some types of files require additional configuration to be accessed on the web. In particular, the PDF Viewer requires network files (such as uploaded PDFs) to allow what is called Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS). Without diving too deep into that, the important part is that if you want users to be able to upload and view PDFs using Firebase Storage, follow the instructions below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some types of files require additional configuration to be accessed on the web. In particular, the PDF Viewer requires network-hosted files (such as uploaded PDFs) to allow Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS). For a deeper understanding of Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS), you can refer to this guide.

The key takeaway is that to allow users to upload and view PDFs using Firebase Storage, follow the steps below.
```

Reviewer: Add a link to external CORS guide

You'll need to run a few commands to enable CORS for your Firebase project. No programming experience is required, but if you're comfortable with Firebase, you can refer to the official guide here: [Firebase CORS Configuration](https://firebase.google.com/docs/storage/web/download-files#cors_configuration).

**Step 1: Find Your Firebase Project ID**

You can find the Firebase project ID from **FlutterFlow > Settings and Integrations > Firebase**. Copy your **Firebase** **Project ID**.

![copy-firebase-project-id.avif](imgs/copy-firebase-project-id.avif)

**Step 2: Open Cloud Shell in Google Cloud Console**

1. Go to the following link, replacing **FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID** with your actual project ID:

```jsx
https://console.cloud.google.com/home/dashboard?cloudshell=true&project=FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID
```

1. If prompted, click **Continue**.
2. You should see a terminal at the bottom of the screen. If your project ID is not displayed in yellow, click the **down arrow** (🔽) next to the project name and select the correct Firebase project.
    

> ![cors-2](imgs/cors-2.png)

Reviewer: screenshot is too low quality

Author: updated!

## Media Types
To display media on widgets, navigate to the **Properties Panel** and specify the media source under the **[Media] Type** option (e.g., ImageType, AudioType, VideoType). Here are the available options:

### Network

Enter the URL of the media directly into the **Path** input field. This is for media hosted online.

![dm-network-path.avif](imgs/dm-network-path.avif)

If your media is uploaded to Firebase or Supabase, click **Set from Variable** on the **Path** input field, and select **Source** as **Widget State > Uploaded File URL**.

![dm-uploaded-file.avif](imgs/dm-uploaded-file.avif)

For media uploaded via an API, choose **Source** as **Action Outputs > [Action Output Variable Name] (API Response)**. Ensure that the API response contains the URL of the uploaded file. Learn how to extract the URL using [JSON path](../../resources/control-flow/backend-logic/api/rest-api.md#json-path).

![dm-api.avif](imgs/dm-api.avif)

:::info

To handle scenarios where media takes time to load or fails to load, you can set a placeholder. Click **Set from Variable** on the **Path** field and specify a placeholder URL under the **Default Value** property.

:::

### Asset

> You can also display media files uploaded to your [**Assets**](../../generated-code/directory-structure.md#assets). Assets are resources such as images, videos, documents, fonts, and other files that you include in your project. To upload assets, click on **Media Assets** in the left-side navigation menu and add files directly from your device. Alternatively, you can directly upload and display files when configuring media widgets by clicking the upload icon.

Author: ok, updated.

![select-from-assets](imgs/select-from-assets.avif)

### Uploaded File

You can access media files within your app without uploading them anywhere. For example, if you'd like to preview an image before sending it to cloud storage, you can do so by setting the source to **Widget State -> Uploaded Local File**.

![dm-local-upload.avif](imgs/dm-local-upload.avif)

## AudioPlayer

The **AudioPlayer** widget allows you to integrate audio playback into your apps. You can play audio from both uploaded assets and external URLs. Refer to the [**Displaying Media**](#media-types) section for more details on accessing media.

:::tip[Generated Code]
The AudioPlayer uses the [**assets_audio_player**](https://pub.dev/packages/assets_audio_player) package for mobile and [**assets_audio_player_web**](https://pub.dev/packages/assets_audio_player_web) for web.

> :::

Author: Yes, you are right! Actually after adding audio player widget to the project, I saw both packages got added to the pubspec file, so I added them directly.

:::info

This action is enabled only when you have added a [**Play Sound**](#play-sound-action) action on a page.

:::

## VideoPlayer

The **VideoPlayer** widget is used to show a video from uploaded assets or the URL link. The VideoPlayer widget can play various video formats such as MP4, MOV, WAV, MPEG, and JPEG motion photos. Refer to the [**Displaying Media**](#media-types) section for more details on accessing media.

:::tip[Generated Code]
The VideoPlayer uses several packages to ensure reliable video playback across different platforms:

- [**video_player**](https://pub.dev/packages/video_player): Provides core functionality for video playback from assets or network sources.
- [**video_player_android**](https://pub.dev/packages/video_player_android): Ensures smooth playback specifically for Android devices.
- [**video_player_avfoundation**](https://pub.dev/packages/video_player_avfoundation): Integrates with Apple's AVFoundation framework for playback on iOS devices.

> - [**video_player_web**](https://pub.dev/packages/video_player_web): Enables video playback support for web browsers.

Author: ya, no problem.
